Alright! In this video we are going to do some
updates. Primarily, we're going to update the
project to use Java 11 and I want to go
through and do a few general updates as
well. A couple releases have happened
with Spring. So we are currently on the
2.0.3 release. They recently brought out
the 2.1 release. So we are going to
upgrade to war and actually let me do
that right now. We are going to be
running several updates here. So I'm just
going to have another project. I'm just
cutting pasting it from this. So you dont't have
to watch me type everything. So now I've
updated that  to 2.1 release so that's going to
bring in a number of new versions for us.
We can see that project Lombok has
gone to 1.18 which is exactly what we
want and now we are in 5.3.1 of
JUnit. In the background I'm looking
at these dependencies. Want to make sure that
we're up on the latest dependencies of
both JUnit 5 as well as project
Lombok because both of these have are
going to have patches in them for
specifically Java things above Java 8. So
we wanted to get those picked up and
make sure that we are functioning
properly on Java 11. So those got
picked up. That is good. Now looking at
the project here. A couple of things that I
want go in and change. One is let's
see here on the data project, we had this
SureFire provider and we're providing a
SureFire in two different places here. So
what I'm going to do is this actually
will cause problems if we're using the
SureFire Provider with Maven SureFire
2.22.0 or higher. So I am going to
just eliminate this plugin from here in
the modules like so. Get rid of them
there and let's take a look at the web
and I am going to get rid of the
SureFire plugin from there as well. I'm
going to move that up to the parent pom.
So remember we have the the parent.
I'm going to come over here and I'm
taking this from a project I did for the
testing course.
I'm going to come in here and now
update these. So now I'm doing SureFire
and then also FailSafe which is going to
be running the integration test. Right
now we don't have any integration
test but I'm setting up the pom here
for that. What's going to happen
underneath the covers with Maven is
these plugins, these sub modules will
inherit from the parent module so that's
exactly what we want. What's
important is that we get to Maven
Surefire 2.22.0 or higher that is
going to include the JUnit 5 support
which is exactly what we want. And here
in the configuration the illegal access
permit. I have found a blog post recommending
that for Java 11 so that's why I have
that in there. I'm not sure exactly why
that is there but it was a
recommendation from a blog post that I
read about updating that. So finally what
we need to do is come over here and
change this to Java 11 as well. Then
finally, we wanted to go in and add in
these two settings here and that's going
to set up the compiler, the Maven
Compiler, that's the property to take
that Java version. So we're setting the
Java version property and then that's
going to get sourced in there on line 30
and 31. Now one thing that we need to go
in and also add is I'm going to create a
dependency section here. Paste this in.
You need one more property. So now I'm
setting the JAXB version. What
happened is when we went from Java 8
to Java 9 the JAXB stuff was a
removed from the standard libraries. But
there's a number of tools inside of
Hibernate whatnot that rely on
having the xml tools there, so that's why
we can include JAXB within this
otherwise our project will not compile.
So this sets up everything for this
and then finally what we need to do is
go in and tell IntelliJ. So if we come up
here to this folder. Click on him and
then what we want to do is change the
project SDK. You can see I have a variety
of eight and I want to jump right to
eleven. And we will also change the
language to allow for Java 11. We're
not going to go to modules or anything at
this point. We are just upgrading the JVM.
Again I'm going after that bug that we
saw apply on a Circle CI. So I'm going to
go as say that apply and say okay and
now that's going to come in here. Let's do
a clean. Let's go ahead and I'm
going to install this. This will run a
number of tests.
I'm also get the compiled.  You can see that
things are going through compiling and
testing and if I've covered all the
bases this is going to work properly.
We've got a build failure and we going to
pause this and dig into this a little
bit deeper.
Okay skipped ahead a little bit. It took
me about twenty minutes to resolve these
issues. There's actually two problems. So
let's tackle the first one. In the web
project, actually I'm going to get rid of
this old comment here, in the web project
what I had to do is come in here. This
WRO 4j plug-in that was failing and it
has not been updated fully for Java 9
plus and what's happening is has an old
version of Mockito in there and we had to
upgrade the Mockito version. So for some
reason that is in there and that is
causing problems with the plugin. So by
upgrading that version that will get us
up to Java 11. Now the second one
it's also a problem. What's happening
here is in the configuration here. This
was working but when I upgraded the
Maven pom we got a new version of this
and that configuration is no longer
accurate. It is now a property. So that's
skip property. It looks like it should
work. It might be a bug. I'm not sure
but by setting this property here, we
looked at the documentation that is a
property to get it to skip. So what we
want this here, the Spring Boot
plugin for Maven is going to try to
create an uber jar in
the data class. We do not want that
happening. We just want a simple jar to
be produced. So this tells Spring Boot
not to repackage it. The symptom you're
going to see is that it's going to complain
that it cannot find a main class.
Actually let me do this.
I'm going to comment this out just so
you guys can actually see the error. I'm
going to come up here to data lifecycle and
we'll go ahead and do the package goal.
You'll see it goes in and runs our
test and then we get the error that it
is unable to find main class. So what
it's trying to do is package it as a
Spring Boot Project looking for the main
class for Spring Boot and this is just
going to be a simple jar. It's not a Spring
Boot jar so that is why we are
setting this property. So now if I come
in and run that, we will see that
this module does now
complete properly and that runs. So I'm
going to collapse this over here and
come to the root. Now let's do a clean.
And now let's go ahead and I'm going to
install that. An install goal tells it to
do everything, compile everything, package
it and it's going to install into my
local Maven cache under user home .m2
repository. So you can see now we are going
through running all the tests. You can
see the Spring Context has started. We are
bringing up test so everything is up
and running and happy and we're going to
do one last thing here. Let's go ahead
and run the application make sure that I
can still run it from IntelliJ. You can see
that IntelliJ is going out and building
it. If you run into problems don't
forget that you do need to upgrade your
JVM settings inside of IntelliJ and that
is again under this folder. We can
see that I have a port in use. So I have
something running somewhere. Let me pause
this. I've got several windows open so
I'm going to pause this real quick. Okay, I
look through my various applications and
did find a running project on 8080. I do
have a number of IntelliJ windows open
so I
have something that I left running so it
came up, hit a port conflict died. But in
this case now we can see here I'm going to
highlight in the messages. We can see
that Tomcat started on 8080. So at this
point I know the applications starting
and running so I am going to double
check things and commit this into GitHub.
Let's go through. I'm going to come up here
version control. We'll take a look at the
data. I'm just going to do a quick code
review of what we did. So we set this
property for to skip the repackaging to
keep that happy so there was a change in
the configuration of how the Spring Boot
Maven plugin is working. Again that's
because I upgraded Spring Boot to 2.1.
Let's come over here. This is in
the Spring Pet Clinic Web. We'll scroll
down to this and I had to upgrade the
Mockito plugin for the WRO4j plugin and
then finally let's take a look at the
parent pom. We got the changes that I put
in here. Upgraded to Spring Boot 2.1.0.
That is the latest release at the time
of recording. Upgraded the Java version
to Java 11. Added in the JAXB
dependencies which were taken out of the
Java 9 JDK.
That was no longer included with Java
but we do have things like Hibernate
that do depend on them. Your project will
be very unhappy if you do not include
these. Then I set the compiler
settings to the Java 11 version. You can
see here on line 35, these are the JAXB
dependencies to bring those in. And
then finally on line 67 there, we
upgraded the Maven SureFire plugin. I
took those out of the child modules.
Brought them up here. I'm explicitly
saying that we need the Maven
Surefire plugin 2.22.0  that
includes the JUnit 5 support as well as
the Failsafe plugin for running
integration tests should we configure
any of those and the argument line
illegal access that is a recommendation
that it's on the web for compiling Java
11 project.
So that completes all these changes. So
I'm going to go ahead and commit this.
Get that pushed up to GitHub and I'm
going to verify that the project on GitHub.
I actually forgot one change. Forgot
about the Circle CI. We need to come in
here. That is set to the Java JDK so that
change that I just pushed that will
definitely fail on Circle CI
because we are asking to build a Java 11
project with Java 8. That will definitely
not work. So there's several versions of
the base image and I am taking the open
JDK 11 and browsers legacy. That
seems to be the most leanest one. I don't
think we need the browser support in
there at this point in time. But I'm picking
that one up. That's seems to be the most
complete JDK with Java 11 for our needs.
So if you look at Circle CI's Docker
Repository, you can see the number of JDK
images that they have there to support.
It's quite a plethora of them to choose
from. That is the one I'm picking so I'm
going to go ahead and commit that.
So that is going to get pushed up to
GitHub and again this is controlling the
base image that Circle CI is going to
use to do our CI builds. So again that
Circle CI is going to check things out
run them inside of a Docker Container.
I'm specifying that I want a Docker
Container with Java 11 in it. So I'm
going to toggle over to Chrome and we
can see that like I said that one build
that I pushed without the upgrade,
that would definitely fail. This one
is running. I'm going to shoot down to
the bottom. I'm going to pause the video
until it's completes. I've resumed
the video and we can see that the
integration test did complete. Shoot down
to the bottom here and we can see that
everything built normally. So let's come
back to our jobs. Just to recap what
happened,
the reason why I upgraded to Java
11 is about two months ago is the last
time I worked on this project. Between
then and now, what happened was Circle CI
they upgraded their base image to a
new release of the Java 8 JDK and
there's a change in there that Maven is
not happy about. The Surefire plugin is
not happy about and that started failing.
So we can see that my code did not
change. The underlying groundwork that
the code runs in that changed and when
I went in and manually triggered a build,
the project started to fail. Let's
actually bring out the pet client
project slowly. So we can see here two
months ago is when I did the last
build on this project. I triggered a
manual build and that's running with a
new version of Java 8 which Maven was
unhappy with. You can say I forgot to upgrade to
Java 11 here and then I upgraded it. So I
didn't do any code changes. I brought in
new libraries too for compatibility with
Java 11 and upgraded the project in
Maven to use Java 11 and now things are
happy again. So that defect inside of the
JDK that Maven was not happy about has
been resolved or does not exist in
inside a Java 11. So
for the pet clinic project we will be
using Java 11 going forward. For the
Spring 5 course in general, I will be
upgrading that in Q1 of 2019 to bring
everything up to Java 11.